your money is held at the banks and the
banks are hanging on by a thread I'm
going to tell you exactly why that is
today you might have your FDIC insurance
but let me tell you I got to explain
what's going on at the banks underlying
all of this system we can see that there
is obviously turbulence and I'm going to
break down exactly why that is the case
you're not going to find this
information elsewhere because we are
getting into the depths of it and quite
frankly only a few understand it we are
just going to scratch the surface and
already that is much more complicated
than what the average person is going to
bring to you so I want to give you that
so that you are empowered if you find
this video informative simply hit that
thumbs up so that you can get the latest
and greatest information first things
first stock Traders get back to
believing that everything is just
perfect I read through this article and
the main point is quite frankly that it
will take some time before Rising
interest rates become problematic they
think it's a few core orders out I'm
about to show you what's happening under
here but I just want to explain the fact
that according to the stock market
everything is A-Okay and you could see
this on various measures of liquidity
and where we are at right now the
Federal Reserve is doing what they call
quantitative tightening so they are
selling off treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities and they are
at a point from you know nine trillion
dollars they're coming down every month
but it's taking time during this process
that can all be balanced out and there
are other factors of course as part of
the money mirror method that we'll talk
about in today's video that kind of
balance that out so you can create
liquidity through different means but
the quantitative easing or quantitative
tightening whichever is being done right
now quantitative tightening or is like
the overall number one most important
factor so everybody on the mentorship
group already knows about this they hear
me talking about it every time but for
this right here I'm going to give you
some other details so here we have it
you can look at several charts I'll show
you today number one being the reserve
balances with the Federal Reserve Banks
and that is in a very clear you know
there's a Chasm that has formed in
between the reserves and the stock
market itself and so you could see over
the years like the these two they move
together and then suddenly they are
completely erratic over the last few
months so what does this mean well the
banks are basically holding x x Reserves
at the Federal Reserve why are they
doing this we'll talk about this more in
a second but this has happened usually
they're moving together in lockstep but
occasionally they do fall apart from
each other and then revert back to the
mean they haven't done that recently
there are several factors of this and
we'll discuss that momentarily I just
want you to know that that's happening
first part of that would be here the
money market funds more and more money
is flowing into money market funds right
now why you're getting five percent on
your money and it's liquid you could
pull that out whenever you need you're
getting a return it is so they would
consider this to be very safe so that
there's a lot of money but that money is
not just from people inside of the US
here we have it on the retail side and
the institutional both applying more
Capital to money market funds all right
and you can compare that to deposits as
well so deposits just in the you know
the recent past we have seen deposits
come up a bit but in general
um you know you could see the definite
Trend there's a big difference and that
people are willing to put their money
into money markets rather than to put
more cash into their deposits okay
because you're going to get a better
return so why are you going to put in
the bank right this is just showing us
what the Federal Reserve has been doing
they've been selling off this is their
balance sheet declining at the same time
the banks are utilizing this temporary
facility of the Federal Reserve they're
doing this at a rate they haven't done
before now I know this stuff might be
complicated you're probably some people
are probably wondering like what the
heck is this guy talking about let me
break this down make it very easy
promise you stay to the end of this
video you're going to get it all and you
will know more than most people out
there because
this is really going to show us what's
going on okay the bank crisis is not
complete you you saw that in March 2023
where all these Banks started to fail
Credit Suisse one of the most important
Global systemically important Bank was
collapsing and they had to come in
they merged between
um you know UBS and Credit Suisse and
the government of Switzerland had to
hide this in secret not for what was
known to be you know the standard of 30
years they extended that to 50 years
they are keeping what happened under
lock and key for an unprecedented 50
years there's something in this Bank
crisis that smells real fishy
real fishing that's one point okay here
we have it the quantitative tightening
is ongoing and that is draining
liquidity from the system other factors
have made up for it more money is
flowing into the United States so right
now at this time we are seeing a record
level of investment into U.S equities as
well as bonds so U.S is really winning
as a result of this and that could
explain a lot of why the market is just
pumping itself right now and banks are
using the fed's temporary facility at a
record level this is not normal let me
be very clear okay they're using it at a
record level when that's a high interest
rate when that's not the preferred
method so keep that in mind this is just
showing us BlackRock okay they have
these real estate investment trusts oh
it's so wonderful
but they have paused redemptions I think
this is uh I know my memory escapes me
the 11th month in a row 10th or 11th
month in a row where they have pause
redemptions what does that mean so you
invest in this fund and they say it's
liquid you can pull it out whenever you
want and then you say okay sounds good
oh there's a problem
um yeah we're gonna pause redemptions
you cannot pull out your money
uh excuse me I thought you said it was
Liquid oh yeah what we can change the
rules at any time
how does that sound what does that tell
you about the you know the the strength
of this industry right now if they could
take their money out half of it would
probably go to the exits what does that
tell you about the banks what does that
tell you about this particular sector
and the strength of some of these
companies I've seen this myself where
the redemptions are a huge problem for
these funds because something went real
bad and they just say we're gonna pause
redemptions Right Here and Now and
people get very upset let me tell you
okay so let's break this all down I'm
going to make this easy okay this is the
most important thing right now the most
important thing and if we understand
this we're gonna have a better grasp as
to what is going on and then at the end
of this video I'm going to show you what
you personally have to do so stay tuned
okay check it out
the main purpose of QT quantitative
tightening is to drain reserves and
reduce the lending capacity of the banks
you're intentionally trying to slow
things down let's get inflation down
everybody let's slow that down by doing
quantitative tightening so we are not
going to you know buy all these asset
back garbage we're not going to buy the
treasuries and so on let's reduce that
down and therefore it's going to reduce
the lending capacity of the banks and
there we can have slowly but surely
things come down if we do it at the
right rate we're going to manage the
soft Landing as they say all right
now we have a near record high at this
time for on many levels actually but the
reserves at this point are at a near
record and anybody in the mentorship
group knows what I'm talking about the
reserves are pretty much they've been
here for well over a year and at this
level we can see that you know this is
something that it's it's been up and
down sort of but it but it's been
sustained roughly around these levels
here and that matches generally over
time that matches the reserves match
with the stock market however in the
last like couple months it's just been
out of whack where the stock market's
going up but those reserves have
basically been flat and that's kind of
an odd circumstance what is interesting
and why you should know about this is
that the reserve requirements of the
banks are set to zero percent right now
zero they don't have to keep reserved so
technically all of these reserves are
excess reserves on top of which the
banks can multiply credit
so there's the reserve requirements
let's just say they have to keep 10 in
there you know fractional Reserve
banking right
that's a okay you got to keep 10 oh we
have a crisis now okay let's bring that
to zero so now all of that so from the
10 bring it all the way down to zero all
of that is excess reserves and so they
can use that to create more credit to
stimulate more to add more liquidity
so yeah they're draining liquidity
through the quantitative tightening it's
a show it's going on in front of
everybody oh we're doing that oh but the
reserves still today we're being told
there's no crisis but clearly there is
because the banks they're operating in
like freakout Zone and that's what's
going on today
hope you get me on that okay big stuff
this may explain why lending is
relatively strong despite the rate hikes
so rates are still ex pretty high I mean
historically anyway when you look at
this uh they you know should be higher
but anyway based on inflation but
let's take what we can get this is
important because we have to start to
address like why is you know the system
acting like this why is the financial
system like this well this is one of the
reasons I hope you get me if you want
more clarification post it in the
comments below I will make more videos I
will do more stuff mentorship group of
course gets all the latest and greatest
you got to know about what's happening
with the debt situation oh my goodness
just look at it credit card
delinquencies are on the upswing most
people didn't know about that
um of course it's still at reasonably
low levels at least with us we'll tell
you but I wanted to
um suggest something else to you which I
thought was really important and that is
the average credit card annual
percentage or APR hit a new record of
20.63 you imagine now you got to think
to yourself ah well some people you know
they didn't pay their bills and this and
that oh yeah I get that what about that
what about this check it out
more consumers
47 are carrying credit card debt from
month to month
excuse me are you kidding me of those
carrying balances sixty percent have
also been rolling them over for longer
than a year in today's rate environment
compared with 50 so more people are
utilizing this debt than ever before so
you think about that 20 interest rate
all right they've got on average the
last time I saw the numbers were around
six thousand dollars so you're carrying
that for over a year
for all of these people half of the
people that have credit card debt are
doing this six thousand dollars twenty
percent you do the math this is crushing
people you add on top of that the
student debt the banks have a problem
the banks have a very clear problem and
we could experience if rates stay where
they are we could experience much more
delinquency over the next little while
we're gonna have to see I will track
that if you're subscribed obviously
you're going to get the latest and
greatest
um typically during these time frames
during a recession people are scared
people are concerned and gold is one of
those safe havens for a lot of investors
this is paper gold of course but it's
gold you know as the term would suggest
of course physical gold always in high
demand that's a whole different story
but we can argue about that a different
day
this is just basically talking about let
me quickly
mention China they are doing a lot of
stimulus right now on every different
level and they realize that their
economy is slowing down and they have a
very big debt problem their banks are
hurting big time and so they can
stimulate and that would temporarily
help them out but they need more longer
term reform that will change things and
you know investors don't really believe
it at this time so that's one factor as
well okay I want to let you know that
you don't have to just say okay what am
I going to do I'm going to just go in my
bunker and go hide absolutely not I want
to tell you what you've got to do these
are just some tips at the end of each
video I like to do this I'd like to give
you a few tips if I can and that's why
we're doing it right here for everybody
who stays until the end of the video
okay don't keep too much money in cash
at the banks
um you know you gotta make sure number
one too much cash is not a good idea but
also banks at the same time uh are
generally just not the place to keep
that you've got to hold as I say right
here you gotta hold real assets so
number one you want to have your money
in a place where uh they're being held
over a period of time you're going to
have businesses you've got to have um
your assets in real estate in precious
metals and things that are real tangible
something you can touch that's important
stuff okay
and uh there are a lot of different
other examples I'm just noting those and
so that I think is where we start to
look at the depths of this and and
um try to make sense of it all because
yeah the banks are having a problem
they're not going to go away the banks
are not just going to disappear tomorrow
look at Credit Suisse it gets bought up
the the average person probably won't
lose money because the insurance will
cover them but you got to understand
what that means is hey if you're going
to be locked out of your money for even
a weekend it what if it's a week what if
it's a month what are they going to do
to the currency itself they're going to
devalue it this is why we can't hold
cash
but that's the warning indication that
we should be all experiencing right now
get that in your head us is still in the
strongest position but make sure that
you know what countries they're exposed
to when you're investing in companies
think about this you might say uh I'm
invested in a U.S company but you've got
Coca-Cola for example Coca-Cola is in
all different countries around the world
maybe for whatever reason Coca-Cola is
like super popular in China and the
China Market represents 50 of Coca-Cola
sales you wouldn't really know that you
think it's you know it's a U.S company
but you've got to understand that if
you're going to expose yourself to these
different stocks to these different
companies or maybe you're a business
transacting with a particular company
you need to know what their exposure is
so always keep that in mind it doesn't
matter which stock exchange they're
being traded on doesn't matter if
they're incorporated or head office is
in a particular country no we've got to
look at a deeper level okay I want you
to get the you know the the most
important stuff the biggest information
that I can give you is always going to
be at the Discord so you can get that at
the link in the description I'm going to
give you the latest and greatest
including the video of the day you'll be
notified inside of Discord for the video
of the day check it out click on that
link in the description and of course
the comment of the day everybody's
favorite new part of the episode here it
is uh Norse Falconer says by the way
thank you for the comment and here I
thought Gap stood for generally accepted
accounting practices or principles
apparently it actually means government
adjusted Financial propaganda that's
right that's the way it goes they're
able to manipulate the numbers that's
why we've got to know both the
manipulated numbers and the real ones
and bring it all together so that we
have the truth I'll see on the next one
take care